Changelog and doc updates for next version (#4318)
apollographql/apollo-kotlin: docs/source/fetching/defer.mdx

---
title: @defer support
---

> > ⚠️ **Defer is a [Stage 1 GraphQL specification proposal](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#stage-1-proposal).** Before it reaches acceptance, it might still change in backward incompatible ways. If you have feedback on it, please let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-android/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&template=bug_report.md&title=[Defer%20Support]) or in the [Kotlin Slack community](https://slack.kotl.in/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ **Defer is experimental in the Kotlin Client and currently a [Stage 1 GraphQL specification proposal](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#stage-1-proposal).** Before it reaches acceptance into the GraphQL specification, it could change in backward incompatible ways. If you have feedback on it, please let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-android/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&template=bug_report.md&title=[Defer%20Support]) or in the [Kotlin Slack community](https://slack.kotl.in/).
```

Apollo Kotlin supports [the `@defer` directive](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/blob/main/rfcs/DeferStream.md), which allows receiving the fields of certain fragments of a query asynchronously.

For instance consider a service where retrieving basic information from a user is fast, but retrieving the user's friends may take more time. In that case it would make sense to display the basic information in the UI as soon as they arrive, and display a loading indicator in the UI while waiting for the friends.

> Applying the `@defer` directive to the fragment selecting the friends fields indicates that we are ready to receive them later, asynchronously:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying the `@defer` directive to the fragment selecting the friends fields indicates that we are ready to receive them as deferred,  asynchronously:
```
